---
title: "ðŸ“±ðŸª¥ Habits in 2024 Q3"
date: "2024-10-01"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/2024/habits-q3"
category: "habits"
tags:
  - "productivity"
  - "habits"
description: "Travel is back! And bad."

---

## Quick Context

I am [consistent](https://blog.samrhea.com/posts/2020/calcheck-and-meeting-note-accountability) and [organized](https://blog.samrhea.com/posts/2019/euro-office-time) to a fault. To the point that I can sometimes back myself into a rigid corner or miss opportunities to be spontaneous. Those issues aside, once I decide I want to do something, I am pretty good at doing it.

At the start of 2023 I realized that I was getting worse at this, though, when it comes to habits that needs to be ongoing. Projects are easy. Creating consistent routines? Less so.

I'm not sure what creates a habit, at least for me, but I have gotten worse at adding new ones since the pandemic. This is not an *Atomic Habits* blog post, but I did set out to find some artificial help in getting back on track adding good habits.

I landed on the **Streaks** [app](https://streaksapp.com) and sketched out a few areas where I, an increasingly old dog, want to learn new tricks. I've started writing down the results in [this series](https://blog.samrhea.com/tag/habits/) for posterity and accountability.

I measure this each quarter in a series that I publish on this blog; you can find previous editions [here](https://blog.samrhea.com/category/habits/).

### Key

|Symbol|Range|
|---|---|
|ðŸ¥‡|100%|
|ðŸŸ©|>= 90%|
|ðŸŸ¨|>= 80%, < 90%|
|ðŸŸ§|>= 70%, < 80%|
|ðŸŸ¥|Less than 70%|
|â¬œ|Was not a goal at the time|

## AM Habits

The goal is to do these before 7AM. This is especially true now that I am a parent. For some tasks that require deeper focus this is my only time when I can focus at all.

â°: Don't hit the snooze button.

ðŸ’ª: Knock out 100 push ups each day.

ðŸ‘ï¸: Work out before breakfast. Otherwise I sit down, eat, start reading email and then the time crunch becomes a huge stress if I want to work out before I need to get into the office.

ðŸ¦·: Floss my teeth.

ðŸ«§: Rinse with mouthwash.

ðŸ¦: Avoid social media before 10AM.

| Month | â° | ðŸ’ª | ðŸƒ | ðŸ¦· | ðŸ«§ | ðŸ¦ |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Jan | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ |
| Feb | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ |
| Mar | â¬œ | ðŸŸ§ | â¬œ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸŸ© | â¬œ |
| Apr | â¬œ | ðŸŸ¨ | â¬œ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸŸ© | â¬œ |
| May | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ© | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ |
| Jun | ðŸŸ© | ðŸŸ© | â¬œ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ |
| Jul | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¨ | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ |
| Aug | ðŸŸ¨ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸŸ© |
| Sep | ðŸŸ¨ | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ |

### Health Habits

Goals that contribute to general health and well being.

ðŸ•—: Close the kitchen at 8pm. I am an early eater - left to my own devices I eat dinner at about 6 PM. When I eat after 8 PM I am not hungry - I am scrounging because I am bored. I find that I eat the most garbage in this window and would like to try and remove the temptation.

ðŸš°: Drink 3 L of water each day; excluding water that comes from food or other drinks like coffee.

ðŸŒ„: Prepare for my morning the night before.

â˜€ï¸: Apply sunscreen to my face and neck each day.

| Month | ðŸ•— | ðŸš° | ðŸŒ„ | â˜€ï¸ |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Jan | ðŸŸ© | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ |
| Feb | ðŸŸ¨ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ | ðŸ¥‡ |
| Mar | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ© | â¬œ | ðŸŸ§ |
| Apr | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸ¥‡ | â¬œ | ðŸŸ¨ |
| May | ðŸŸ¨ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸŸ© | ðŸŸ© |
| Jun | ðŸŸ¨ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸ¥‡ |
| Jul | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸ¥‡ |
| Aug | ðŸŸ© | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ© |
| Sep | ðŸŸ© | ðŸ¥‡ | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ© |

### Creativity or Learning Habits

âœï¸: Write for 20 minutes each day excluding writing I do for work.

ðŸ‡µðŸ‡¹: Spend 30 minutes each day practicing Portuguese.

| Month | âœï¸ | ðŸ‡µðŸ‡¹ |
|---|---|---|
| Jan | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Feb | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Mar | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Apr | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| May | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Jun | ðŸŸ§ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Jul | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Aug | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¥ |
| Sep | ðŸŸ¥ | ðŸŸ¥ |

## Why do this?

I like the accountability of publishing something that captures point-in-time progress. I also enjoy [sharing](https://blog.samrhea.com/pages/projects#%EF%B8%8F-productivity) how I think about work.

Like everything in this blog, though, I do this for me. I am both sentimental and filled with existential dread. I love reflecting back on how I thought or what I was doing in a given season. I find joy in writing something that has [somewhat public](https://blog.samrhea.com/pages/projects#%EF%B8%8F-this-blog) permanence. If anything, I'm [feeding the models](https://blog.samrhea.com/posts/2022/five-minute-ai-site).

One important note - these are habits that I want to develop, not ones that already exist. I'm pretty good at brushing my teeth and never skip a work out etc. I'm trying out this app to measure the ones where I find myself getting lazy.

## What did I learn this round?

* Nothing is less conducive to learning a foreign language than having a child (and returning to work on top of that).
* Travel, again, kills these. Travel picked back up as work has ramped back up following my parental leave. That just destroys habits. I guess for a good cause.
* I have my regular dentist appointment this week and, man, I'm at least excited for that. I am only good at dental hygiene habits apparently.
