---
title: "✍️👓 Kaiju Preservation Society by John Scalzi"
date: "2025-04-18"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/2025/kaiju-preservation-society-by-john-scalzi"
category: "reading"
tags:
  - "reading"
  - "books"
description: "More fun with Scalzi crews."
---

> ## Not a Book Report
> I enjoy [reflecting](https://blog.samrhea.com/posts/2019/analyze-media-habits) on the movies, TV, books and other media that I consume. I'm notoriously sentimental. This [series](https://blog.samrhea.com/category/reading) documents the books that I read. These aren't reviews or recommendations. Just a list. For me. Mostly so that I can page through what I read, where I was, and when.

## Why did I read it?

I purchased this as an audiobook years ago, long before my current Scalzi obsession. I finally got around to it as I continue to burn through his back catalog.

## What is it?

|Category|Value|
|---|---|
|**Title**|*Kaiju Preservation Society*|
|**Author**|John Scalzi|
|**Year Published**|2022|
|**Format**|Kindle|
|**Pages**|268|
|**ASIN**|B0927B1P8L|

### Publisher Summary

The Kaiju Preservation Society is John Scalzi's first standalone adventure since the conclusion of his New York Times bestselling Interdependency trilogy.

When COVID-19 sweeps through New York City, Jamie Gray is stuck as a dead-end driver for food delivery apps. That is, until Jamie makes a delivery to an old acquaintance, Tom, who works at what he calls “an animal rights organization.” Tom’s team needs a last-minute grunt to handle things on their next field visit. Jamie, eager to do anything, immediately signs on.

What Tom doesn't tell Jamie is that the animals his team cares for are not here on Earth. Not our Earth, at least. In an alternate dimension, massive dinosaur-like creatures named Kaiju roam a warm, human-free world. They're the universe's largest and most dangerous panda and they're in trouble.

It's not just the Kaiju Preservation Society who have found their way to the alternate world. Others have, too. And their carelessness could cause millions back on our Earth to die.

## How did I read it?

|Category|Value|
|---|---|
|**Date Started**|April 15, 2025|
|**Date Finished**|April 18, 2025|
|**Places Read**|Bangalore, Etihad flights|

## Notes - No Spoilers

* I love the teams he assembles in his more playful books like this, Redshirts, Agents. They’re goofy friends and I want to join them.
* I’d read a 10-part novel on the logistics and operations of the KPS.
* Wild how much a role COVID played as a setting and something that impacted the writing of the book. Just feels like a totally different life.
