---
title: "🇷🇺🪆 Moscow X by David McCloskey"
date: "2025-09-15"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/2025/moscow-x"
category: "reading"
tags:
  - "reading"
  - "books"
description: "Less fun spies this time."
---

> ## Not a Book Report
> I enjoy [reflecting](https://blog.samrhea.com/posts/2019/analyze-media-habits) on the movies, TV, books and other media that I consume. I'm notoriously sentimental. This [series](https://blog.samrhea.com/category/reading) documents the books that I read. These aren't reviews or recommendations. Just a list. For me. Mostly so that I can page through what I read, where I was, and when.

## Why did I read it?

Amazon has me profiled and it is pretty sure I am an American dad in his mid-to-late 30s. The books they surface to me are no surprise these days given my reading history with Tom Clancy and more recently Elliot Ackerman.

I was on the hunt for something new after reading Ackerman's latest, _Sheepdogs_, and I found David McCloskey's novels. I figured I'd enjoy them (I was right) and picked up the one that felt closest to home given that I was in Northern Europe when I bought it.

## What is it?

|Category|Value|
|---|---|
|**Title**|*Moscow X*|
|**Author**|David McCloskey|
|**Year Published**|2023|
|**Format**|Kindle|
|**Pages**|460|
|**ISBN**|978-1324050766|

### Publisher Summary

CIA officers Sia and Max enter Russia under commercial cover to recruit Vladimir Putin’s moneyman. Sia works for a London law firm that conceals the wealth of the superrich. Max’s family business in Mexico—a CIA front since the 1960s—is a farm that breeds high-end racehorses. They pose as a couple to target Vadim, Putin’s private banker, and his wife, Anna, who—unbeknownst to CIA—is a Russian intelligence officer under deep cover at the bank. As they descend further into a Russian world dripping with luxury and rife with gangland violence, Sia and Max’s only hope may be Anna, who is playing a game of her own. Careening between the horse ranch in northern Mexico, the corridors of Langley, and the dark opulence of Putin’s Russia, Moscow X is both a gripping thriller of modern espionage and a raw, unsparing commentary on the nature of truth, loyalty, and vengeance amid the shadow war between the United States and Russia.

## How did I read it?

|Category|Value|
|---|---|
|**Date Started**|September 10, 2025|
|**Date Finished**|September 15, 2025|
|**Places Read**|Amsterdam, Munich, Lisbon, European flights, a flight to Texas|

## Notes - No Spoilers

* I enjoyed it! I'm going to read his prior book next.
* I appreciated a few Texas shout outs.
* I need to read more about Russia.
* I get the Le Carré references, at least in broad sweeping terms. Lot of spy intrigue. No fancy speedboats or exploding wrist watches. I do think that misses much of what made Le Carré special, though. None of his protagonists were super handsome, ultra wealthy cowboys. No one lived happily ever after. The bad guys won often.
